---
layout: post
title: "Sugar Labs joins the Software Freedom Conservancy"
date: 2008-12-09
---


Boston, MA, December 9, 2008: Sugar Labs today announced its membership in the
Software Freedom Conservancy, an organization of free and open source software
projects. Sugar Labs supports the free and open source desktop environment,
Sugar, originally created for the One Laptop per Child Project (OLPC). The
Sugar community now has an active global developer base that is focused on
engaging young children in learning through computing and the Internet. As a
member of the Conservancy the Sugar community will work to accelerate the
adoption of the Sugar learning platform and strengthening the project by
attracting new industry members and community contributors.

In May 2008, the Sugar project became independent of OLPC, making Sugar
available to a wider community of Sugar developers and users. Subsequently
Sugar has been ported to Debian, Ubuntu, and other GNU/Linux distributions.
Sugar can now run on almost any computer hardware. In October 2008, Sugar Labs
released Sugar Version 0.82, which features enhanced usability and stability.
In November, Sugar announced the availability of the pre-alpha version of
“Sugar on a Stick”, a LiveUSB image of Sugar that gives children access to
Sugar on any computer with just a USB key. Joining the Conservancy is an
important milestone in the path towards making Sugar available to children
everywhere.

Founded in March 2006, the Conservancy allows developers of its member
projects to unite under a common organization which provides much-needed
administrative services to them. This structure spares each software project
the burden of starting and maintaining its own independent non-profit
organization. Sugar Labs has joined as the Conservancy’s fifteenth member
project.

