---
layout: post
title: "New foundation focused on taking the Sugar user interface to the next level of usability and utility"
date: 2008-05-15
---


Cambridge, Mass., May 15, 2008. Sugar Labs Foundation is being established to
further extend Sugar, the highly acclaimed open source “learn learning”
software platform that was originally developed for the One Laptop per Child
(OLPC) XO laptop. Sugar is the core of the XO laptop’s human-computer
interface; it provides a fun, easy-to-use, social experience that promotes
sharing and learning. Sugar Labs will focus on providing a software ecosystem
that enhances learning on the XO laptop as well as other laptops distributed
by other companies, such as the ASUS Eee PC. Consistent with the OLPC mission
to provide opportunities for learning, an independent Sugar Labs Foundation
can deliver learning software to other hardware vendors and, consequently,
reach more children.

Sugar Labs will take a proven learning concept to the next level of
refinement, stability, and cohesiveness, and will be a unifying catalyst for
free and open-source learning systems across multiple distribution and
hardware platforms. The Labs will provide support to a community of developers
focused on learning as well as support for the learners. The Sugar platform
has already been bundled with the most recent release of the Ubuntu and Fedora
GNU/Linux distributions.

Walter Bender, former president of software and content at OLPC, is helping to
launch Sugar Labs, working closely with the developers and community members
from around the world who have played the lead roles in the development of the
Sugar user interface (UI). Prior to OLPC, Bender was executive director and a
founding member of the Media Lab at MIT. He has participated in much of the
pioneering research in the field of electronic publishing and personalized,
interactive multimedia.

In order to provide a rich learning experience to as many of the world’s
children as possible, it is critical to not just provide computers to
children, but to ensure that the software that runs on the computers maximizes
the potential for engaging in activities that promote learning: exploration,
expression, and collaboration. By being independent of any specific hardware
platform and by remaining dedicated to the principles of free and open-source
software, Sugar Labs ensures that others can develop diverse interfaces and
applications from which governments and schools can choose. An independent
Sugar Labs ensures that the community can continue the development of a highly
innovative interface that is already engaging children in learning in more
than two-dozen countries worldwide.

“This is a very exciting time in the development of software for children’s
education,” said Walter Bender. “In the first generation of the Sugar UI, the
free and open-source community has demonstrated an exceptional ability to
create a platform that enables children to explore the world, share their
discoveries and express themselves. As a separate foundation, we will be able
to advance Sugar’s development even further and make it available on multiple
distributions and hardware platforms.”

Many of the core Sugar developers are participating in the launch, including
Marco Pesenti Gritti, Bert Freudenberg, Simon Schampijer, Bernardo Innocenti,
Aaron Kaplan, Christoph Derndorfer, and Tomeu Vizoso.

Bert Freudenberg, one of the developers of the Etoys activity, commented,
“Expanding Sugar to more hardware platforms gives a great boost to all
developers of educational software. Sugar is the first system specifically
aimed at helping children to learn while supporting a rich variety of
contributed applications. As third-party developers, my colleagues at
Viewpoints Research Institute look forward to a great relationship with Sugar
Labs.”

“Sugar has been brought to maturity by OLPC and a relatively small team of
community supporters,” said Tomeu Vizoso. “The time has come to unlock Sugar’s
potential as a global education project; the creation of the Sugar Labs is the
next step expanding upon a project where people from all around the world can
contribute to improving education, with the assurance that their efforts will
be of benefit to everyone.”

