---
layout: post
title: "Sugar Labs Announces Beta‑1 of Sugar on a Stick, LiveUSB Version of Sugar Learning Platform for Children"
date: 2009-04-22
---


[PDF](/press/SugarLabsPR_en_20090422.pdf)

Cambridge, MA, April 22, 2009: Sugar Labs™ announces the availability for
testing of Sugar on a Stick Beta‑1. This version of the free open-source Sugar
Learning Platform, available at [www.sugarlabs.org](http://www.sugarlabs.org)
for loading on any 1 Gb or greater USB stick, is designed to facilitate
exploration of the award-winning Sugar interface beyond its original platform,
the One Laptop per Child XO‑1, to such varied hardware as aging PCs and recent
Macs to the latest netbooks.

Teachers and parents interested in trying Sugar with children can download the
Sugar on a Stick beta‑1 file from the Sugar Labs website and load it onto a
USB stick by following the instructions at [wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_on_a_S
tick](http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_on_a_Stick).

Walter Bender, Executive Director of Sugar Labs, said “Sugar is perfectly
suited for children in the classroom with its simple, colorful interface,
built-in collaboration, and open architecture. Sugar on a Stick lets you start
a computer with Sugar and store a child’s data on the stick without touching
the host computer’s hard disk. Sugar’s Activities such as Write, a shared word
processor, and the recently announced InfoSlicer Activity, which enables
teachers to easily collect and package web-based content for the classroom,
benefit fully from Sugar’s collaboration features.”

Caroline Meeks of Solution Grove
([www.solutiongrove.com](http://www.solutiongrove.com)), the Sugar on a Stick
project manager, commented: “We’re counting on teachers to help us improve
Sugar on a Stick as we work towards our Version‑1 release scheduled for Q3
2009. We just presented Sugar on a Stick at the FOSS VT conference
(<http://www.ncose.org/node/47>) where it generated great interest, and our
real-world tests at local sites with varied aging PCs have been very
encouraging.”

Sugar testers are invited to send bug information and constructive criticism
to [feedback@sugarlabs.org](mailto:feedback@sugarlabs.org). “We won’t be able
to reply to every message,” continued Ms. Meeks, “but we will read every one
in order to make Sugar on a Stick a reliable learning tool in budget-stretched
classrooms by the fall.”

