---
layout: post
title: "Sugar Labs Nonprofit Announces v2 of Sugar on a Stick with Improved E-Book Readers, Recycles Any USB Stick Into Learning Environment for Children; Partners with Nexcopy, Inc."
date: 2009-12-08
---


PARIS, December 8, 2009 — Netbook World Summit — Sugar Labs(R), volunteer-
driven nonprofit provider of the Sugar Learning Platform for over one-million
children around the world, announces the release of Sugar on a Stick v2
Blueberry. Available for download at <http://www.sugarlabs.org>, Sugar on a
Stick can be loaded onto any ordinary 1Gb or greater flash drive to reboot any
PC, netbook or recent Mac directly into the child-friendly Sugar environment
without touching the existing installation. Sugar is also available for
GNU/Linux distributions, runs under virtualization on Windows and Apple OS X,
and features built-in classroom collaboration and automatic backup to a
Journal. The latest version of Sugar offers simpler navigation, improved
wireless networking, streamlined updating of Activities for children, easier
keyboard configuration, better Gnash support for Adobe Flash content, and
more. New Activities such as Physics and OOo4Kids join updated favorites such
as Browse and Read, suitable for reading e-books.

“Sugar on a Stick is a great way to experience Sugar”, commented Walter
Bender, Sugar Labs executive director. “In this holiday season, we wish to
remind parents and teachers that e-books are not only for costly reader units
for the well-to-do, but freely available as part of the open-access to
knowledge movement to help children everywhere develop critical learning
skills and to bridge the digital divide wherever it exists.”

Sugar on a Stick includes several e-book reader Activities to find and display
e-books in PDF, EPUB, and DejaVu formats. The Read Etexts Activity can read
e-books out loud, converting any old PC or inexpensive netbook into a text-to-
speech aid for disabled readers. With Sugar, children can even make their own
e-books. Thousands of e-books for children are available on websites such as
Project Gutenberg, the Internet Archive Children’s Library, epubBooks.com,
Feedbooks.com, and ManyBooks.net. Other sites offer online reading, such as
the International Children’s Digital Library.

Pilot Sugar projects are underway in American and European schools. School
administrators wishing to deploy Sugar will be interested in OLPC’s recently
updated XS school server software, which provides “safety net” and
connectivity services at the school level: backup, content distribution,
filtered access to the Internet, and Moodle integration. To assist schools
interested in testing this technology, Sugar Labs has partnered with Nexcopy,
Inc. of Rancho Santa Margarita, California, an industry leader in USB
duplicator solutions, to open <http://recycleusb.com>. Nexcopy will collect
used USB sticks, reload them with Sugar on a Stick, and forward them to Sugar
Labs for distribution to schools. Nexcopy has also donated a 20-stick USB
duplication unit to Sugar Labs.

Greg Morris, President of Nexcopy, commented, “Nexcopy is proud to partner
with a nonprofit organization such as Sugar Labs. We believe the Sugar
Learning Platform is clearly a step in the right direction for getting
children involved with personal computers. Our objective is to give Sugar Labs
the back-end equipment support needed to make this philanthropy successful and
help with producing the large number of Sugar Sticks needed for global
deployment. I am very honored Nexcopy is a part of this process.”

About Sugar Labs: Sugar Labs, a volunteer-driven, nonprofit organization, is a
member project of the Software Freedom Conservancy. Originally part of the One
Laptop Per Child project, Sugar Labs coordinates volunteers around the world
who are passionate about providing educational opportunities to children
through the Sugar Learning Platform. Sugar Labs is supported by donations and
is seeking funding to accelerate development. For more information, please
visit <http://www.sugarlabs.org>.

About Nexcopy Incorporated: Nexcopy Incorporated specializes in developing and
manufacturing the finest and most feature-rich flash memory duplicators in the
market. Pioneering the solid-state memory duplication market, Nexcopy supplies
Central and South America, Europe, India, Asia, Pacific Rim and serves the
U.S. market through its headquarters in California.

Sugar Labs is a registered trademark of the Software Freedom Conservancy.
Other names are trademarks of their respective owners.

