---
layout: post
title: "Sugar Labs Announces Immediate Availability of Sugar on a Stick; Learning Platform Runs on Any PC or Netbook In The Classroom"
date: 2009-06-24
---


LinuxTag, Berlin, June 24, 2009: Sugar Labs™, nonprofit provider of the Sugar
Learning Platform to over one-million children worldwide, announces the
immediate availability of Sugar on a Stick v1 Strawberry. Available free for
download at [www.sugarlabs.org](http://www.sugarlabs.org), Sugar on a Stick
can be loaded onto an ordinary 1GB USB flash drive and used to reboot any PC
or netbook directly into the award-winning Sugar environment. It runs on
recent Macs with a helper CD and in Windows using virtualization. Sugar on a
Stick is designed to work with a School Server that can provide content
distribution, homework collection, backup services, Moodle integration, and
filtered access to the Internet. Today’s Strawberry release is meant for
classroom testing; [feedback](mailto:feedback@sugarlabs.org) will be
incorporated into the next version, available towards the end of 2009.

“One year after its founding, Sugar Labs is delivering on its education
promise for its second million learners,” commented Walter Bender, founder and
executive director. “Sugar is preferred because it is a superior learning
experience for young children: engaging while being affordable. Sugar on a
Stick is a great way to try Sugar without touching your computer’s hard disk.
It is also well suited to slower, older PCs and low-powered netbooks. There is
a version for the OLPC XO-1 and it will ship with the newer XO-1.5 laptops in
the fall.”

Sugar on a Stick provides a coherent and consistent computing experience. It
reduces costs by providing flexibility in hardware choices, allowing schools
to keep their existing investment in hardware. Learners can benefit from the
increased household ownership of computers; by bringing Sugar on a Stick home,
every student has a consistent, comparable computing environment that parents
can share in as well. It also provides off-line access to applications and
content as not every learner has Internet access at home.

As part of an ongoing effort to make Sugar on a Stick classroom-ready, Sugar
Labs has been awarded a $20,000 grant from the Gould Charitable Foundation to
implement Sugar at the Gardner Pilot Academy, a public elementary school
located in one of the most culturally and linguistically diverse sections of
Boston, Massachusetts.

Learning Activities are at the heart of Sugar. Sugar on a Stick includes 40
Activities to interest young learners such as Read, Write, Paint, and Etoys.
Hundreds more Activities are available free for download at the [Sugar
Activity Library](http://activities.sugarlabs.org). Most “Sugarized”
Activities have student collaboration built-in; students and teachers work,
play, and learn on the same Activities together. The Sugar Learning Platform
is open, so by leveraging the work of other open source projects, existing
software for children can be integrated; for example, the acclaimed GCompris
suite of 100 Activities developed over the past five years by Bruno Coudoin
was recently added to Sugar, including Activities such as Chess, Geography,
and Sudoku. Teachers and parents interested in Sugar’s Activities and its
modern interface for children can watch short videos on the recently opened
[Sugar Labs Dailymotion channel](http://www.dailymotion.com/sugarlabs).

Visitors to LinuxTag are welcome to speak with Sugar Labs contributors at
booth 7.2a 110a.

