---
layout: post
title: "Sugar Labs Nonprofit Announces New Version of Sugar Learning Platform for Children, Runs on Netbooks and PCs"
date: 2009-03-16
---


[PDF](/press/SugarLabsPR_en_20090316.pdf)

Cambridge, MA, March 16, 2009: Sugar Labs™ announces the availability of
version 0.84 of the Sugar Learning Platform for the One Laptop Per Child XO-1,
classroom PCs, and netbook computers. Designed from the ground up for
children, the Sugar computer environment is used by almost one-million
students aged 5 to 12 in over 40 countries every school day. This improved
version features new collaborative Sugar Activities and, in response to
teacher feedback, the ability to easily suspend and resume Activities, saving
time in the classroom.

Walter Bender, Executive Director of Sugar Labs, commented: “We’re excited
about this release, which runs on more PCs than before and has great new
Activities for kids to explore together such as a Mindmap Activity, a
critical-thinking tool used to create diagrams representing words and ideas
around a central keyword, and a Portfolio Activity, an assessment tool that
makes it even simpler for teachers and parents to review a child’s progress.
The Sugar Journal, which provides automatic backup and history of students’
work, has new features to make it easier for students to annotate their work
and to revisit and revise past projects. The new Infoslicer Activity enables
teachers to quickly and easily select web-based content to edit, package, and
distribute as teaching materials. And for older students curious about how
computers work, the View Source function is now universal to all Activities.”

The Sugar Learning Platform is free open-source software; it is available for
download at www.sugarlabs.org. The native interface of the One Laptop Per
Child project’s XO-1 in daily use around the globe, Sugar has been translated
into 26 languages with 50 more languages underway. 24/7 community support is
available online. Sugar is available on major GNU/Linux distributions, recent
Apple Macintosh™ computers with virtualization, and Windows™ PCs via a
GNU/Linux liveCD, which doesn’t touch the hard disk. Sugar on a Stick, a
liveUSB version designed to simplify classroom use of Sugar, is scheduled for
release in Q3 2009.

The Sugar Learning Platform is part of the permanent collection of the Museum
of Modern Art in New York and was awarded a silver medal in the International
Design Excellence Awards ’08. Its innovative “learning-centric” approach has
earned praise from educators worldwide. Sugar Activities, unique to the
platform, allow students to study and create together; students learn both
from the teacher and from each other.

Mr. Bender commented, “Sugar 0.84 is an important step as we work toward
version 1.0 of Sugar on a Stick, which will greatly simplify evaluation and
use of Sugar in the classroom. Sugar on a Stick will start Sugar from a simple
USB memory stick on nearly any recent computer from netbooks to desktops, and
most older PCs as well, without interfering with pre-existing software
installations.”

“As we approach the one-millionth child ‘learning to learn’ with Sugar on the
OLPC XO-1, we call for volunteers to join us—a challenge to educate for
developers, designers, translators, and deployers,” Mr. Bender said. “In
particular, we need testers to help us make Sugar on a Stick a robust solution
available anywhere there is a computer.”

