---
layout: post
title: "Sugar Labs and Free Software Foundation Celebrate Software Freedom Day, Announce Joint Efforts to Promote the Sugar Learning Platform for Children Worldwide"
date: 2009-11-18
---


CAMBRIDGE, MA, September 18, 2009 - Sugar Labs, nonprofit provider of the
Sugar Learning Platform for children, and the Free Software Foundation (FSF),
which promotes computer users’ right to use, study, copy, modify, and
redistribute computer programs, have announced joint efforts to collaborate
and promote Sugar on the occasion of Software Freedom Day, September 19th. The
FSF will host an event in Boston featuring Sugar Labs Executive Director
Walter Bender, FSF president Richard Stallman, and other speakers. Peter
Brown, FSF’s executive director, said, “The Sugar Learning Platform is fast
becoming an essential route to computer user freedom for children around the
world. The international free software movement is getting behind Sugar, and
we want to use Software Freedom Day as an opportunity to help draw community
attention, developer resources, and external funders to the important work
going on at Sugar Labs.”

The FSF has upgraded its hosting services support of Sugar Labs to keep pace
with its growth. As part of the ongoing relationship, Bernardo Innocenti, a
member of the Sugar Labs Oversight Board, is working at the FSF offices. Mr.
Innocenti stated: “The FSF and Sugar Labs are pursuing distinct, but
interdependent goals; Free (as in Freedom) Software is a fundamental part of
globally accessible education, and good education enables critical thought, a
pre-requisite for appreciating the value of Freedom.”

Sugar is a global project. Translated into 25 languages, it is used in
classrooms in 40 countries by over 1 million children as part of the One
Laptop per Child (OLPC) nonprofit program. Sugar’s simple interface, built-in
collaboration, and automatic backup through each student’s Journal have been
designed to interest young learners. The recently released Sugar on a Stick
(SoaS) project brings Sugar to even more children, allowing young learners to
keep a working copy of Sugar on a simple USB stick, ready to start up any PC
or netbook with the child’s environment and data. Pilot projects in schools
with Sugar on a Stick are underway in Boston, Berlin, and elsewhere. SoaS is
free software available under the General Public License (GPL) and is
available for download without charge
[sugarlabs.org](http://www.sugarlabs.org).

According to Walter Bender, “Sugar is running on over 99% of all of the OLPC-
XO laptops around the world because governments prefer its quality, openness,
built-in collaboration, and easy localization to indigenous languages.
Teachers and students are exercising their freedom by modifying and improving
Sugar and its Activities. With Sugar on a Stick, access to Sugar is even more
widespread.”

For example, Uruguay has distributed a Sugar-equipped OLPC laptop to every
student in the country. Alexandre Oliva of FSF’s sister organisation Free
Software Foundation Latin America (<http://www.fsfla.org>) said, “I was amazed
when I first saw Sugar in action in Peru two years ago; shortly thereafter, my
daughter tasted Sugar and loved it. She’s going to elementary school next
year, and I’m very happy she can now easily carry Sugar with her, and share it
with her friends. Myself, I’m going to spread its freedom into as many schools
as I can.” Karsten Gerloff, President of Free Software Foundation Europe
(<http://fsfe.org>), added: “Education and Free Software are both all about
sharing knowledge. Through projects like Sugar, young people around the world
can discover the creativity that freedom makes possible. Together with the
political backing thatFSFE’s Edu-Team and others are building, Sugar puts Free
Software inits rightful place in education.”

Sugar Labs relies on the efforts of software developers who donate their
skills to the project. Mr. Bender continued, “We are looking for developers
with experience in GNU/Linux, Python and/or Gtk+ for contributing to the Sugar
shell and educational Activities for children. We also need testers,
experienced packagers, and educators willing to contribute their ideas for
Sugar in the classroom.”

