---
layout: post
title: "Sugar Labs Announces New Version of Sugar on a Stick, Educational Software for Children"
date: 2010-06-10
---


BERLIN, June 10, 2010 — LinuxTag — Sugar Labs®, nonprofit provider of the
Sugar Learning Platform to over one and a half million children worldwide, has
released Mirabelle, the third version of Sugar on a Stick, a collaborative
learning environment that can be loaded onto any ordinary USB thumbdrive and
used with a PC, netbook or Mac without touching the hard disk. It is available
free for download at <http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_on_a_Stick>. Sugar
runs natively on major GNU/Linux distributions and can also run in
virtualization under Microsoft Windows and Apple OS X.

One year after the premiere of v1 Strawberry at LinuxTag 2009 and following v2
Blueberry last December, v3 Mirabelle brings improved stability and simplified
customization to curious teachers interested in testing Sugar on new netbooks
or PCs already in the classroom. We suggest teachers reach out to university
level computer science and education schools to build local support
structures, important with an ICT project.

Sebastian Dziallas, Project Lead for Sugar on a Stick and a recent high school
graduate based in Germany, said, "Teachers have told us how important
reliability is in the classroom while engaging students, so we decided to
create a release that has a stable core and can be customized to fit every
deployment's needs. Mirabelle is a solid baseline which teachers can customize
with Activities interesting to young learners. Part of our strategy is to
achieve sustainable development while inviting new contributors. We achieved
this by integrating Sugar on a Stick more closely with Fedora, the underlying
GNU/Linux distribution; Mirabelle is now an official Fedora Spin."

Sugar Labs is also making available a Sugar Creation Kit, a downloadable DVD
which includes Mirabelle, documentation, and a library of Sugar Activities,
fun and engaging programs for children taken from the Sugar Activity Library
(<http://activities.sugarlabs.org>).

Thomas Gilliard, a Sugar Labs contributor, said, "The Sugar Creation Kit turns
any PC into a Sugar on a Stick generating station. Tools and documentation are
gathered on one disk; busy teachers don't have to hunt down anything. This
makes it possible to work via 'sneaker net' and in a classroom behind a
firewall."

Visitors to LinuxTag are invited to meet Sugar Labs contributors at Hall 7.2a,
Booth 115.

About Sugar Labs: Sugar Labs, a volunteer-driven, nonprofit organization, is a
member project of the Software Freedom Conservancy. Originally part of the One
Laptop Per Child project, Sugar Labs coordinates volunteers around the world
who are passionate about providing educational opportunities to children
through the Sugar Learning Platform. Sugar Labs is supported by donations and
is seeking funding to accelerate development. For more information, please
visit <http://www.sugarlabs.org>.

