---
layout: post
title: "United Nations Relief and Works Agency chooses One Laptop per Child Laptops with Sugar for Major Education Project in Mideast"
date: 2010-04-29
---


CAMBRIDGE, Mass, April 29, 2010 - The United Nations Relief and Works Agency
for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA, <http://www.unrwa.org>) has
announced an ambitious three-year program to provide a laptop loaded with the
award-winning Sugar Learning Platform to one-half million Palestine refugee
children in the West Bank and Gaza, Lebanon, Syria, and Jordan.

“Empowering the next generation through knowledge and learning is central to
UNRWA’s education projects. We are teaching 500,000 children in the Middle
East every day and having all of them with a laptop will be huge contribution
to bridging the technology and knowledge gap in one of the most troubled
regions of the world”, said Chris Gunness, UNWRA Spokesman.

Walter Bender, founder and Executive Director of Sugar Labs, said: “Today,
one-and-one-half-million children, from the rain forests of Peru to the
steppes of Mongolia, from the hills of Rwanda to the mountains of Afghanistan,
are learning in their native tongues with Sugar and its suite of learning
Activities on OLPC’s XO laptops. The UNRWA project will add one-half million
more learners in the Jordan valley and throughout the Middle East, and more
projects are on the way. An entire generation is learning with Sugar.”

The heart of Sugar is its Activities for children
(<http://activities.sugarlabs.org>), fun and engaging programs for reading
e-books, writing, drawing, browsing the Internet, programming, and so on.
Sugar has collaboration and backup to a Journal built-in, making it
particularly well-suited both for the classroom and outside school where
learning continues. The free open source XS School Server, available from One
Laptop per Child, provides a safely filtered online environment for young
learners.

Existing UNRWA learning content will be adapted to Sugar and teacher training
is underway. The UNRWA project follows last year’s deployment of 1000 XO
laptops in Palestinian schools by the Palestine Education Initiative
(<http://www.pei.gov.ps>, <http://en.palexo.com>). Sugar Labs welcomes
developers and volunteers to make this important endeavor successful.

About Sugar Labs: Sugar Labs, a volunteer-driven, nonprofit organization, is a
member project of the Software Freedom Conservancy. Originally part of the One
Laptop Per Child project, Sugar Labs coordinates volunteers around the world
who are passionate about providing educational opportunities to children
through the Sugar Learning Platform. Sugar Labs is supported by donations and
is seeking funding to accelerate development. For more information, please
visit <http://www.sugarlabs.org>.

