---
layout: post
title: "Sugar Learning Platform and GNOME Desktop Now Shipping on the One Laptop per Child XO-1.5; Will Run On New XO-HS"
date: 2010-01-14
---


ASUNCIÓN, June 14, 2010 – Sugar Labs, the GNOME Free Desktop Project, and One
Laptop per Child (OLPC) have announced an update to the software offered on
the OLPC XO-1.5. The 1.5 million children already using Sugar on the original
XO-1 can also benefit from the update, since Paraguay Educa has backported the
software.

The Sugar Learning Platform promotes collaborative learning through child-
friendly Activities that encourage critical thinking. The GNOME free desktop
is a hallmark of all major GNU/Linux distributions, suitable for older
children and grownups. Switching between the two environments takes only a
single click. With GNOME on the XO laptop, the door is opened to thousands of
additional educational and productivity applications.

The XO-1.5 has the same industrial design as the original XO-1. Based on a VIA
processor, it provides 2× the speed of the XO-1, 4× DRAM memory, and 4× FLASH
memory. OLPC has announced the availability of a high-school edition of the
XO-1.5, the XO-HS, with a newly designed keyboard, more comfortable for older
students. The first deployment of the XO-HS is set to begin in Uruguay under
the highly successful Plan Ceibal in September.

Children familiar with the XO-1 will naturally grow into the XO-1.5 with its
expanded functionality. “One Laptop per Child promotes open-source software so
that it can grow and adapt to the needs of the child. The Sugar platform on
the XO is key to our educational mission because it gives students a unique
and intuitive learning software environment,” said OLPC Association CEO
Rodrigo Arboleda.

Stormy Peters, Executive Director of the GNOME Foundation, said, “We're really
excited to be working with Sugar and OLPC to provide desktop software to
children of all ages. GNOME's mission is to provide a free desktop accessible
to everyone. Children from Uruguay to Ghana will be able to use their XOs to
learn and to show their friends and families how to use Sugar and GNOME.”

Walter Bender, Executive Director of Sugar Labs, said “the fluidity of
movement between the two desktops gives learners the ability to transition
from a learning environment – Sugar – to a production and productivity
environment – GNOME. They have the means of honing the creative skills
acquired in an elementary education setting into entrepreneurial skills in a
secondary education setting.”

“Sugar on a Stick” allows children who don't have an XO laptop to benefit from
this new software. Available for download from Sugar Labs in the new, v3
Mirabelle flavor, it can be loaded onto an ordinary USB thumbdrive and used to
start a PC in Sugar without touching the hard disk. The XO laptops and Sugar
on a Stick run Fedora GNU/Linux.

About Sugar Labs: Sugar Labs, a volunteer-driven, nonprofit organization, is a
member project of the Software Freedom Conservancy. Originally part of the One
Laptop Per Child project, Sugar Labs coordinates volunteers around the world
who are passionate about providing educational opportunities to children
through the Sugar Learning Platform. Sugar Labs is supported by donations and
is seeking funding to accelerate development. For more information, please
visit <http://www.sugarlabs.org>.

About GNOME: GNOME is a free-software project which develops a complete,
accessible and easy-to-use desktop standard on all leading GNU/Linux and Unix
distributions. Popular with large corporate deployments and millions of small-
business and home users worldwide, it includes a development environment to
create new applications. The nonprofit GNOME Foundation is composed of
hundreds of volunteer developers and industry-leading companies. More
information can be found at <http://www.gnome.org> and
<http://foundation.gnome.org>.

About One Laptop per Child (<http://www.laptop.org>): OLPC is a non-profit
organization created by Nicholas Negroponte and others from the MIT Media Lab
to design, manufacture and distribute laptop computers that are inexpensive
enough to provide every child in the world access to knowledge and modern
forms of education.

