---
layout: post
title: "Sugar Labs Nonprofit Sponsoring Team Chipotle to Raise Awareness of Educational Mission"
date: 2011-04-15
---


MONTEVIDEO, Uruguay, April 15, 2011 — Sugar Labs®, software provider to the
One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) project, will sponsor Team Chipotle, the
Continental cycling team owned and operated by Slipstream Sports LLC, in a
groundbreaking arrangement which will raise funds to support the nonprofit’s
educational mission. Team Chipotle will raise awareness for Sugar Labs at
races around the world with team jerseys carrying the Sugar Labs logo.

“Team Chipotle has grown out of our founding goal of developing the next
generation of cycling champions. Every kid loves a bike race and young
cyclists provide great role models for children,” said Jonathan Vaughters, CEO
of Slipstream Sports. “We want to make a difference in the lives of young
athletes and children and our innovative sponsorship arrangement with Sugar
Labs is part of that.”

The team will race over the next ten days in the 68th Vuelta Ciclista del
Uruguay 2011 and pupils there will participate, taking photos and writing
articles with their green XO laptops as the race passes through their towns,
and e-mailing them to
[concurso@rapceibal.info](mailto:concurso@rapceibal.info) for posting to a
blog (<http://www.sugarlabs.org/vueltaciclista>). The best articles will win
prizes to be awarded at the eduJAM! Developers Summit which will take place in
Montevideo May 5–7 (<http://ceibaljam.org>).

“Sports and STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) have a
great synergy. We are excited by the prospect of engaging children in learning
math and science through their excitement about the race”, said Walter Bender,
founder and Executive Director of Sugar Labs.

Uruguay is the first country in the world to provide 100% of its elementary
school pupils and teachers - over half a million - with an OLPC XO laptop
running Sugar through its Plan Ceibal (<http://ceibaljam.org>).

According to Gabriel Eirea of CeibalJAM!, “This race is, after football, the
most popular sports event in the country and is an integral part of our local
culture. Every year during Holy Week this race passes through the remotest
towns of the country and is followed by hundreds of thousands of enthusiastic
viewers. The volunteer community supporting Plan Ceibal, represented by RAP
Ceibal and ceibalJAM!, wants to promote the use of XO laptops beyond the
schools, inside the communities, advocating technology appropriation. With
Sugar and the XO, our children don’t just consume content, they create it.
During the race, children throughout the country will be blogging about the
team. At eduJAM!, Sugar Labs developers will meet children who are at the
center of their mission and benefit from their work.”

Image: [ChipotleDevelopmentTeam_RedlandsCyclingClassic.jpg](/press/ChipotleD
evelopmentTeam_RedlandsCyclingClassic.jpg)

About Sugar Labs: Sugar Labs, a volunteer-driven, nonprofit organization, is a
member project of the Software Freedom Conservancy. Originally part of the One
Laptop Per Child project, Sugar Labs coordinates volunteers around the world
who are passionate about providing educational opportunities to children
through the Sugar Learning Platform. Sugar Labs is supported by donations and
is seeking funding to accelerate development. For more information, please
visit <http://www.sugarlabs.org>.

About Slipstream Sports LLC: Founded in 2005, Slipstream Sports, LLC is a
highly progressive sports management company dedicated solely to promoting the
ethical growth of cycling and developing the next generation of cycling
champions. For more information, please visit
<http://www.slipstreamsports.com>.

Sugar Labs is a registered trademark of the Software Freedom Conservancy.
Other names are trademarks of their respective owners.

NOTE: The Chipotle Development Team will unfortunately not race in the Vuelta
Ciclista del Uruguay this year.

