---
layout: post
title: "Children Programmers Abound at First International TurtleArt Day"
date: 2013-10-12
---


[PDF](/press/SugarLabsPR-en.20131015.pdf)

CAACUPÉ, Paraguay, October 12, 2013 - Sugar Labs(R), educational nonprofit
provider of free and open-source learning software for children, is proud to
celebrate TurtleArt Day [1] in Caacupé, Paraguay, with 275 students, their
parents, and 77 teachers. They were joined by educators and Sugar developers
from 8 countries throughout the Americas and as far away as Australia.
Additional TurtleArt Days are planned for Peru, Costa Rica, Argentina, and
Malaysia; the next will be October 15th in Montevideo, Uruguay.

Caacupé has been the focus of a one-to-one learning program run by Paraguay
Educa [2] since 2008. The foundation is active in 35 schools, working with 365
teachers and 9,700 children. The children of Caacupé live in areas with high
poverty levels: 60% of them are street workers and most have at least one
parent living abroad. Much of the coordination was done by "Evolution"
children, youth leaders in Caacupé who attend school in the morning, teach in
the afternoon, and on weekends supply technical support to school programs.

TurtleArt is a programming environment with a graphical "turtle" that draws
colorful art based on snap-together elements. Its "low floor" provides an easy
entry point for beginners. It also has "high ceiling" programming features
that challenge the more adventurous student. TurtleArt's roots are in Logo,
the first programming language for children, created by Seymour Papert, Wally
Feurzeig, Daniel Bobrow, and Cynthia Solomon in 1967. Logo’s friendly turtle,
which relies on instructions from children to move, has inspired adaptations
from Logo for the Apple(R) II to Lego(R) Mindstorms(R), TurtleArt, and
Scratch.

An international group of TurtleArtists travelled to Caacupé with the generous
support of BBVA Bank to launch the first TurtleArt Day. Also participating was
EduJam! [3] attendants, a group of developers who work on open-source
educational software. Caacupé’s participants enjoyed workshops to create
TurtleArt projects; interactive programming that involved robots and sensors;
and discussions where educators and children shared their experiences.

"Logo was designed to be 'mathland'; TurtleArt is 'artland', says Artemis
Papert, co-creator of TurtleArt. "It allows us to bring together art and
programming. While you do art, you also do programming, math, and geometry --
the tools you need while focusing on doing art. We have observed that artists
become more comfortable with programming and programmers become more
comfortable with art when they use TurtleArt."

Cecilia Rodríguez Alcalá, Executive Director of Paraguay Educa, said, "The
aspects of TurtleArt Day highlighted by the Evolution team included cultural
exchange between the children and the international community, and children
teaching each other, pursuing their personal interests, including projects
involving physical-world interaction."

Claudia Urrea, an educator and member of the Sugar Labs Oversight Board, said,
"With TurtleArt, the children enjoyed programming the robots and using
sensors, creating artistic images, engaging in the concrete use of
mathematical concepts such as variables and random numbers, realizing how
quickly the pace of their learning evolved, and discovering the multiple
applicabilities of computation."

Andres Aguirre of the Butia project, a robot programmed with TurtleArt, said,
“Even though the children had limited time to use the robots, they were able
to experiment with some high-level programming concepts such as conditionals
and control structures.”

[1] <http://turtleartday.org>  
[2] <http://www.paraguayeduca.org>  
[3] <http://ceibaljam.org>

Image: [caacupe-turtleartday-captura-pantalla.png](/press/caacupe-
turtleartday-captura-pantalla.png)  
Image: [caacupe-turtleartday.png](/press/caacupe-turtleartday.png)

About Sugar Labs(R): Sugar Labs, a volunteer-driven, nonprofit organization,
is a member project of the Software Freedom Conservancy. Sugar Labs
coordinates volunteers around the world who are passionate about providing
educational opportunities through the Sugar Learning Platform. Sugar is
installed on more than three million computers. Sugar Labs is supported by
donations and is seeking funding to accelerate development. For more
information, please visit http://www.sugarlabs.org/press or contact
pr@sugarlabs.org.

Sugar Labs(R) is a registered trademark of the Software Freedom Conservancy.
Other names are trademarks of their respective owners.

