---
layout: post
title: "Sugar Labs(R) Educational Nonprofit Celebrates Digital Learning Day With Two Google Code-In Grand Prize Winners"
date: 2013-02-05
---


[PDF](/press/SugarLabsPR-en.20130205.pdf)

CAMBRIDGE, Mass, February 5, 2013 - Sugar Labs(R), educational nonprofit
provider of free and open-source learning software for children, is proud to
celebrate Digital Learning Day February 6th [1] with Google Code-In [2] grand
prize winners Agustin Zubiaga Sanchez and Aneesh Dogra, who participated
brilliantly in Google's annual program for middle and high school students
aged 13 to 17. Over 50 participants from 14 countries, mentored by 22 Sugar
Labs volunteers, helped to improve Sugar. The winners will visit Google
headquarters in Mountain View, CA this spring. Google Code-In and its sister
program for university students, Google Summer of Code, invite open source
organizations to mentor students who work on real programming and
documentation tasks.

Agustin (Aguz to his friends) is 15, lives in a village in Uruguay and is a
recent graduate of Rafael Perazza Technical High School at Universidad del
Trabajo del Uruguay. After using Sugar for several years, his computer club
teacher encouraged him to learn the Python programming language used in Sugar.
One of his projects involved code to add background images to Sugar's Home
View. He says, "I started programming thanks to Sugar and now I am very happy
to be one of its developers."

Aneesh, also a winner at last year's Google Code-In, is 17 and lives in
Punjab, India. He worked on updating a large number of Sugar “Apps” for
children and contributed to the "Make Your Own Sugar Activities!" ebook [3].
Having won previous honors, including runner-up in last year's Raspberry Pi
Summer Coding Contest [4], he is interested in audiovisual applications and
computer security. More information about Aneesh is available on his blog [5].

"We had a hard time choosing our winners," commented Chris Leonard, Sugar Labs
liaison for Google Code-In. "Fully a third of our participants completed
multiple tasks. Aneesh was prolific, completing over 40 tasks, and Aguz made
fundamental improvements to the Sugar platform itself. All of our participants
learned over these past three months. Notably, one participant, Daniel Francis
of Uruguay, had to take his name out the running because he was elected to the
Sugar Labs Oversight Board during the contest at the ripe old age of 14."

"Six years after Sugar first appeared in classrooms, its first generation of
learners are becoming tomorrow's engineers, writers, and teachers," said
Walter Bender, founder of Sugar Labs. "Aguz and Daniel grew up with Sugar in
Uruguay where Sugar is used in every school and Google Code-In had its first
ever participant from Peru, where Sugar is part of the nationwide curriculum
as well. Sugar was designed to be low floor, no ceiling and its Journal,
Activities, built-in collaboration and View Source features make Sugar ideal
for the classroom."

Sugar is used in developing countries worldwide through the One Laptop Per
Child program [6], but it also appeals to all children discovering the digital
21st century. Dr. Gerald Ardito, a Sugar Labs board member, as well as a
middle school teacher and professor of Computer Science in Westchester, NY,
has used Sugar in a variety of educational settings. "It is so powerful to
watch students be able to take real ownership of their learning when they are
using Sugar", he said. "I have seen them time and time again move from being
consumers of computer centered media to producers."

Sugar Labs wishes to thank Google and in particular Bradley Kuhn, executive
director of the Software Freedom Conservancy, parent organization of Sugar
Labs and 27 other free/libre software projects.

[1] <http://www.digitallearningday.org>  
[2] <http://developers.google.com/open-source/gci/2012>  
[3] <http://www.flossmanuals.net/make-your-own-sugar-activities>  
[4] <http://www.raspberrypi.org/archives/2544>  
[5] <http://anee.me>  
[6] <http://laptop.org>

Image:
[SugarLabs_GCI_2012_Winners.jpg](/press/SugarLabs_GCI_2012_Winners.jpg)

About Sugar Labs(R): Sugar Labs(R), a volunteer-driven, educational nonprofit
organization, is a member project of the Software Freedom Conservancy.
Originally part of the One Laptop Per Child project, Sugar Labs coordinates
volunteers around the world who are passionate about providing educational
opportunities to children through the Sugar Learning Platform. Sugar Labs(R)
is supported by donations and is seeking funding to accelerate development.
For more information, please visit http://www.sugarlabs.org/press or contact
pr@sugarlabs.org.

Sugar Labs(R) is a registered trademark of the Software Freedom Conservancy.
Other names are trademarks of their respective owners.

