---
layout: post
title: "Sugar Labs(R) Educational Nonprofit Celebrates Two Google Code-In Grand Prize Winners"
date: 2014-01-22
---
[PDF](/press/SugarLabsPR-en.20140122.pdf)

CAMBRIDGE, Mass, January 22, 2014 - Sugar Labs(R), educational nonprofit
provider of free and open-source learning software for children, is proud to
recognize Google Code-In Contest [1,2] grand-prize winners Ignacio Rodríguez
and Jorge Alberto Gómez López, who participated brilliantly in Google's annual
program for middle- and high-school students aged 13 to 17. Through GCI,
Google invites open source organizations to mentor students who work on real
programming and documentation tasks. Over 30 participants from more than a
dozen countries — from Australia to Zimbabwe — mentored by Sugar Labs
volunteers, helped to improve the Sugar Learning Platform used by over three
million children worldwide. The winners will visit Google headquarters in
Mountain View, California this spring.

Ignacio, who is 14 and lives in Canelones, Uruguay, grew up with Sugar and
began participating in Sugar development three years ago. "The competition was
a place to socialize and make friends!", he says. "While I felt pressure, the
community was there to help."

Jorge, age 17, lives in Santa Tecla, El Salvador. "I never dreamed I would be
working on an open source project; it was really fun to explore a whole new
world, learn new tools, and most importantly, making new friends from
different parts of the world—people that share the same objective and work as
a community. I feel that I'm part of Sugar Labs, part of a big project, with
friends and mentors."

Rounding out the Sugar Labs list of finalists are Sai Vineet from Jamshedpur,
India, Emil Dudev from Sofia, Bulgaria, and Sam Parkinson from Canberra,
Australia (Sugar is widely deployed in Australian schools). Sam remarked,
"Contributing to Sugar has, besides giving me experience in programming, shown
me how fun programming collaboratively can be! And its also been fun working
towards a common, meaningful goal."

"GCI has made it evident that Sugar users are becoming the Sugar developers:
Sugar not only gives them the license but also the means for developing their
own tools for learning. In taking ownership, they become responsible," said
Walter Bender, founder of Sugar Labs. "We had a difficult time choosing our
winners. Many participants completed multiple tasks. Ignacio was prolific,
completing over 60 tasks, but all five of our finalists made fundamental
improvements to the Sugar platform itself."

José Miguel García, an education researcher from the Department of Educational
Technology at Uruguay’s CODICEN-ANEP in Montevideo, observed: "For the second
consecutive year a youth from Uruguay has won the competition. The nationwide
Plan Ceibal, which delivers a laptop running Sugar to every child, achieves
levels of equity in access to technology. These laptops, besides being used in
formal education, enable young people to explore and develop activities,
whether recreational, artistic, communication, programming, etc. These young
people, guided and encouraged by their families, teachers and the Sugar
community are reaching significant levels in the development of 21st century
skills."

Sugar Labs wishes to thank Google and in particular Bradley Kuhn, executive
director of the Software Freedom Conservancy.

[1] <http://developers.google.com/open-source/gci/>  
[2] <http://google-opensource.blogspot.fr/2014/01/google-code-in-2013-drumroll-please.html>

<img src="/press/SugarLabs_GCI_2013_Winner_Ignacio.jpg" alt="SugarLabs_GCI_2013_Winner_Ignacio.jpg" style="width:100%">  

<img src="/press/SugarLabs_GCI_2013_Winner_Jorge.jpg" alt="SugarLabs_GCI_2013_Winner_Jorge.jpg" style="width:100%">  

About Sugar Labs(R): Sugar Labs(R) is a volunteer-driven member project of
Software Freedom Conservancy, a nonprofit corporation. Originally part of the
One Laptop Per Child project, Sugar Labs coordinates volunteers around the
world who are passionate about providing educational opportunities to children
through the Sugar Learning Platform. Sugar Labs(R) is supported by donations
and is seeking funding to accelerate development. For more information, please
visit http://www.sugarlabs.org/press or contact pr@sugarlabs.org.

Sugar Labs(R) is a registered trademark of the Software Freedom Conservancy.
Other names are trademarks of their respective owners.

