---
layout: post
title: "2024 Annual Report"
author: "Devin Ulibarri"
date: 2025-03-24
categories: community
---

# Annual report for 2024

This report is meant to be an overview of the work Sugar Labs did in
2024\. Looking back at 2024, we did a lot of work – we participated in
events in the US and India, we mentored more than a dozen students
over the length of the summer for Google Summer of Code and Dedicated
Mentorship Program, which we participated in for the first time last
year. We launched a series of online videos to showcase our work to
the public, while simultaneously giving a platform for young
contributors to reflect upon their progress and to be introduced to a
larger developer community. We created a handful of entirely new
software projects for learning, such as new math games and Sugarizer
activities. And we improved our existing software – implementing new
features, fixing bugs, and making our learning software available on
more platforms. We did all this and more in 2024, which I detail in
more detail below.

I hope that the annual publication of our work in the form of an
executive summary will serve as a benchmark as we work toward
continuous self-improvement as a nonprofit dedicated to serving our
community of teachers and learners, all working together to create
powerful tools for learning.

## Development in 2024

Google Summer of Code (GSoC) and Dedicated Mentorship Program (DMP)

As for our work this summer, Sugar Labs participated in our fourteenth
Google Summer of Code (GSoC) to assist students to work on [eleven
projects](https://www.sugarlabs.org/press/2024/05/01/Sugar-Labs-receives-eleven-contributor-projects-for-GSoC-2024/). This,
combined with our first-ever participation in Code4GovTech’s Dedicated
Mentorship Program (DMP), advanced our software development, mentoring
a total of fourteen students who worked an estimated five-thousand
hours on projects spanning the gamut from Maintaining and Porting
Twelve Activities to Flatpak, to creating new math games, to creating
promising new generative-AI services for both teachers and
learners. To get a better sense of all that we accomplished this
summer, you are encouraged to watch the Finale series of students’
presentations on our YouTube channel at
[https://www.youtube.com/@SugarlabsOrg-EN](https://www.youtube.com/@SugarlabsOrg-EN). We
also encourage you to check out the work in more detail by reading the
reports published on Medium at
<https://medium.com/@sugarlabs/list/google-summer-of-code-d90eae4b54fb>
and <https://medium.com/@sugarlabs/list/code4govtech-3377e03c6dd5>.

## Outreach and communications

### Online events

In 2024, I also started a series of live events online where past and
current contributors and students have a platform to tell their
stories, as well as to invite guests from other organizations to
discuss the future of technology-in-education. I did this because,
although Sugar Labs’s impact is somewhat obvious to the many who are
active in the community, I’ve found that there are still many untold
stories from community members whose lives have been impacted by our
work. As I’ve continued to speak to members of the community and
published their stories, I’ve found that these previously untold
stories continue to affirm the important role Sugar Labs plays in
education. For example, in [my interview with Ibiam
Chihurumnaya](https://youtu.be/JLsUiVzZ5Z0), he shared how the Sugar
Learning Platform and the Sugar community introduced him and his
classmates to programming from a young age and has given him skills he
continues to use to this very day.

#### Expanded social media presence

Last year, we expanded the ways people can follow our work on social
media. In addition to the presence on Facebook, Instagram, YouTube,
and LinkedIn, we are now on Bluesky, WhatsApp, and, my personal
favorite, Mastodon.

If you are on any of these platforms, I recommend you follow Sugar
Labs and boost our posts to help with our outreach efforts. And if you
are interested in assisting us with our outreach efforts through
social media, I encourage you to subscribe to our marketing mailing
list and state your interest:
<https://lists.sugarlabs.org/listinfo/marketing>.

### Reboot of regular newsletters

In 2024, we relaunched regular newsletters, now going out
approximately once every three months. These newsletters are intended
to provide information about our progress as an organization, as well
as news we believe to be valuable to our community.

* <https://www.sugarlabs.org/community/2024/09/20/sweet-spot/>
* <https://www.sugarlabs.org/community/2024/12/29/sweet-spot-002/>

### Newsletter email subscription

Our newsletters are being published to the website, and they can also
be sent directly to your inbox\! In 2024, we started using
professional mailing services with Buttondown to send out newsletters
to email subscribers around the world. If you’re not already
subscribed, please do so via <https://buttondown.com/sugarlabs>.

### Reboot of Sugar Stories

Also in 2024, we began to solicit stories from members of our
community. It’s still early into our ask for more stories, but we did
receive an article from [James
Simmons](https://activities.sugarlabs.org/en-US/sugar/user/45) sharing
his work in [helping others to create their own Sugar
Activities](https://www.sugarlabs.org/stories/2024/09/13/Writing-new-Activities-and-sharing-sugar-with-youth/). I
also wrote an article about [my perspective towards Sugar
Labs](https://www.sugarlabs.org/stories/2024/12/25/Reflections-as-Parents-and-Teachers-Sugar-at-home-and-in-their-classroom/),
from the standpoint of both a parent and teacher.

You can read these stories and more at:
<https://www.sugarlabs.org/sugar-stories/>

If you have a story to tell, please share it with us at
[info@sugarlabs.org](mailto:info@sugarlabs.org) or send it to the
group at either of the following mailing lists:
<https://lists.sugarlabs.org/listinfo/iaep> (mainly for
education-related topics) or
<https://lists.sugarlabs.org/listinfo/sugar-devel> (mainly for
development-related topics).

### Major improvements to our website

Throughout the year, I did my best to update our website, which needed
some major updates. Being unfamiliar with Jekyll, which is what the
site was built with, I struggled for a few months to make more
significant improvements. Over the course of the year, thanks to
members of the free software community, I learned enough about Jekyll
to publish more regularly to <www.sugarlabs.org>.

Near the end of 2024, more and more folks from the development
community jumped in to assist in making improvements to the
website. The website is doing much better now than it did at the
beginning of 2024, and, looking ahead, this work spurred the current
work towards a completely revamped version of the website. The launch
of the new version of the website is planned for April, 2025\.

My heartfelt appreciation goes to the many volunteers who assisted
with our website. If you’re interested in joining the group working on
the website, please join us at
<https://matrix.to/#/#sugarlabs-web:matrix.org>.

### Conference talks 

In 2024, Sugar Labs was able to send representatives to attend a few
in-person conferences. Although our budget is quite limited, we
decided that attending conferences would help boost our visibility as
an organization, so we invested time and money to send myself to a few
conferences in the US, and we sponsored Sugar Labs community member
Anindya Kundu to represent us at Opportunity Open Source Conference at
IIT Kanpur.

#### LibrePlanet

In May, I attended the Free Software Foundation’s annual LibrePlanet
conference in Boston, MA. There, I [handed out
flyers](https://mstdn.io/@codewiz/112384505018899979) and showed off a
computer running the Sugar Desktop Environment.

<figure><img src="{{ site.baseurl
}}/assets/2024-annual-report/image30.jpg?w=960&amp;fit=max"
alt="Devin with Zoe, with the address 51-55 Franklin St visible in the background." draggable="false"
width="100%"><figcaption>Devin Ulibarri and FSF executive director Zoë Kooyman, in front of the FSF office in Boston, MA. The FSF hosts the annual Libre Planet conference.</figcaption></figure>

#### 2024 Micro Camp

In June, I spent a weekend at a 2024 Micro Camp, a retreat for
microtonal musicians, where I showcased Music Blocks visual
programming language. Music Blocks, a flagship Sugar Labs project, has
rich microtonal capabilities. I showcased those features for one of
the first talks of the retreat, and I even used Music Blocks as a
musical instrument to perform a piece of music that requires
twenty-two divisions of the octave, for which I did not have an
instrument capable of playing except for [a programmed instrument I
created within Music
Blocks](https://musicblocks.sugarlabs.org/index.html?id=1719093905649087&run=True).

At the conference, I was also pleasantly surprised to meet so many
free/libre/open source developers and educators. A large percentage –
much larger a percentage than at most music conferences – were
developing software. In retrospect, it makes sense that there are so
many microtonalists who develop software because these musicians
typically need to create instruments that will play pitches
differently than what you would purchase in most stores, and they use
both physical and digital medium to create such unique instruments.

<section id="intro" class="customMarPadCombo2">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row">
      <div class="col-md-12">
        <div class="testimonial-carousel">
          <div id="testimonial-slider2" class="owl-carousel text-center">
            <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image29.png" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">22 EDO in Music Blocks.</h3>
              <p>Music Blocks has many affordances for tuning and temperament, an important concept in music. The program in this screenshot performs a 22 equal-divisions-of-the-octave (EDO) pitch whenever you touch one of the mice.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image20.png" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Music Blocks as an instrument</h3>
              <p>Devin (at right) performs a piece, written in 22 EDO, together with an ensemble using Music Blocks on a tablet.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image8.png" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Duo performance on Kite guitar and linnstrument</h3>
              <p>The ideas that inspire Music Blocks come from musical concepts, instruments, and traditions. Devin (at left) performs together with composer and microtonalist Kite Giedraitis.</p>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

#### CMK

In July, I attended Constructing Modern Knowledge (CMK), a retreat for
teachers, in Manchester, NH. This retreat is a good fit for Sugar Labs
as it is focused on Constructionism. CMK brings together passionate
educators from around the world to work on new and creative projects,
which they bring back to their respective schools.

<section id="intro" class="customMarPadCombo2">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row">
      <div class="col-md-12">
        <div class="testimonial-carousel">
          <div id="testimonial-slider2" class="owl-carousel text-center">
            <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image7.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">First Day at CMK</h3>
              <p>Gary Stager is the organizer of CMK, a retreat for teachers to work together on Constructionism projects.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image26.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">CMK projects</h3>
              <p>CMK participants are expected to work in groups create a project. On the final day, each group presents their project.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image25.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Guest speakers</h3>
              <p>The 2024 CMK brought two esteemed individuals working in music education, Tricia Tunstall (left) and Melissa Walker</p>
            </div>
	    <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image4.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Lego notation</h3>
              <p>Devin (at left) collaborated with Jamie Chelel (MIT) to create lego notation for the blind.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image21.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Detailed notation</h3>
              <p>Devin and Jamie created a simple and detailed notation system as a starting point to explore lego as a music notation system for the blind.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image35.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Fellow instructors</h3>
              <p>CMK attracts many passionate instructors. Devin (far left) had the pleasure of working together with Josh Burker (left), Tracy Rudzitis (right) and many others.</p>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

You can read my full article on the experience, as well as work done
toward creating a system for using Lego blocks to encode musical data,
here:
<https://medium.com/@sugarlabs/reflections-from-constructing-modern-knowledge-2024-1ce7d60fbb1c>.

#### FOSSY 2024

In August, I attended FOSSY, hosted by the Software Freedom
Conservancy, in Portland, OR. I gave a talk titled “[Mentoring youth:
The FOSS strategy we've been looking
for](https://2024.fossy.us/schedule/presentation/202/).” You can watch
the talk on our YouTube channel at
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mKBXSC9Veq8>.

I also ran two Birds of a feather sessions. One was a Music Blocks
workshop, where Bryan Ollendyke of [HAX](https://hax.psu.edu/) tested
the limits of the Javascript editor in Music Blocks. The other was a
free/libre/open (FLO) music concert, where I joined [Aaron
Wolf](https://blog.snowdrift.coop/author/wolftune/), [Timmy
Barnett](https://gnulinux.love/), [Kite
Giedraitis](https://tallkite.com/), and others to showcase
[FLO](https://wiki.snowdrift.coop/about/free-libre-open) through
instruments, software, and a variety of music.

<section id="intro" class="customMarPadCombo2">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row">
      <div class="col-md-12">
        <div class="testimonial-carousel">
          <div id="testimonial-slider2" class="owl-carousel text-center">
            <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image3.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Hacking on musical Javascript</h3>
              <p>Music Blocks has an export to Javascript feature, which got the attention of Bryan Ollendyke, creator of HAX.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image45.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Music Blocks's JS editor</h3>
              <p>Music Blocks is a waypoint not a destination. That's why we offer learners the option to export to Lilypond, MIDI, and Javascript.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image13.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Two Birds of a feather</h3>
              <p>At FOSSY, Devin gave one talk and led two Birds of a feather sessions. One session was for Music Blocks, and the other was a music concert.</p>
            </div>
	    <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image49.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Mariah Villarreal</h3>
              <p>Sugar Labs Google Code-In mentor and Libre Learn Lab director Mariah Villarreal (left) has dedicated her career to STEAM education and free software.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image40.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Meeting with good friends</h3>
              <p>Free software volunteer Jason Self attended FOSSY.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image34.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Making new connections</h3>
              <p>Bryan Ollendyke (left), creator of HAX, and his son attended the Music Blocks workshop at FOSSY.</p>
            </div>
	    <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image5.png" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Live musical performances</h3>
              <p>Devin performed together with microtonalist Kite Giedraitis at FOSSY.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image9.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">FLO musicians</h3>
              <p>There were many "FLO musicians" at FOSSY. Among the musicians who performed in the concert who also gave a talk were Aaron Wolf of Snowdrift (2nd from the left), Timmy Barnett (third from left), and Devin Ulibarri (2nd from the right).</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image33.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Playful</h3>
              <p>After the concert, audience members got a chance to play the instruments. Alternate tuning on the Linnstrument is made possible thanks to free/libre/open (FLO) source software, an important concept for Sugar Labs.</p>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

#### Internet-in-a-box demonstration

Also in August, I attended a meetup to demonstrate
[Internet-in-a-box](https://internet-in-a-box.org/) (IIAB), led by
[Adam Holt](https://github.com/holta). Kids and teachers got an
opportunity to see what IIAB does and to try
it. [Sugarizer](https://sugarizer.org/), the web-based version of the
Sugar Learning Platform, is among the packages chosen for IIAB, which
empowers schools to use learning services that would otherwise require
an internet connection.

<section id="intro" class="customMarPadCombo2">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row">
      <div class="col-md-12">
        <div class="testimonial-carousel">
          <div id="testimonial-slider2" class="owl-carousel text-center">
            <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image43.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Internet in a Box</h3>
              <p>Internet-in-a-Box (IIAB) is a solution for communities that do not have internet access. It acts as a server with educational software and services pre-installed.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image20.png" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Sugarizer</h3>
              <p>Sugarizer is one of the programs that comes pre-installed on IIAB.</p>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

#### GSoC Mentor Summit

Sugar Labs has participated in GSoC almost every year since
2009\. This year, we worked on a number of projects. I was sent to
represent Sugar Labs at the conference, hosted at Google
headquarters. He met with other mentors, attended talks, and gave a
lightning talk on our unique approaches to mentoring.

<section id="intro" class="customMarPadCombo2">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row">
      <div class="col-md-12">
        <div class="testimonial-carousel">
          <div id="testimonial-slider2" class="owl-carousel text-center">
            <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image17.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Sameer Verma</h3>
              <p>Sameer Verma (at left) is the organizer for OLPC San Francisco and has documented some of Sugar Labs's growth over the years in the form of interviews.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image41.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Karen Sandler</h3>
              <p>Karen Sandler (at right) is the executive director for Software Freedom Conservancy, which acted as fiscal sponsor Sugar Labs until 2019.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image32.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Google Summer of Code mentors</h3>
              <p>Google hosts many orgs and many, many mentors for GSoC every year. Devin is at lower-left.</p>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

#### Opportunity Open Source Conference at IIT Kanpur

Sugar Labs was invited to present at Opportunity Open Source
Conference at IIT Kanpur, so we sponsored community member and Music
Blocks v4 maintainer Anindya Kundu to represent our organization.
Anindya presented his journey in Sugar Labs through a talk titled “The
‘build to learn’ guide for Google Summer of Code and beyond.”

<figure><img src="{{ site.baseurl
}}/assets/2024-annual-report/image51.png?w=960&amp;fit=max"
alt="" draggable="false"
width="100%"><figcaption>Former GSoc participant and Music Blocks v4 maintainer Anindya Kundu represented Sugar Labs at Opportunity Open Source Conference at IIT Kanpur in August.</figcaption></figure>

Comment on, like, and share the original post: <https://www.instagram.com/p/C_S_ccSRlFR/>

Interested in representing Sugar Labs at a conference? Please reach
out to us at [info@sugarlabs.org](mailto:info@sugarlabs.org) for
presentation feedback and handout materials.

### Boston Code Camp

Sugar Labs executive director Devin Ulibarri and board member Walter
Bender led a session for [Boston Code Camp on November 23,
2024](https://www.bostoncodecamp.com/CC37/Schedule/SessionGrid) titled
“Create musical code with Music Blocks” where they introduced Music
Blocks to an audience of educators and technologists.

<section id="intro" class="customMarPadCombo2">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row">
      <div class="col-md-12">
        <div class="testimonial-carousel">
          <div id="testimonial-slider2" class="owl-carousel text-center">
            <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image37.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Music Blocks co-creators</h3>
              <p>Devin Ulibarri (at left) and Walter Bender (at right) have been working together on Music Blocks since its start in 2014.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image23.png" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Phrase Maker widget</h3>
              <p>Devin and Walter presented Music Blocks at Boston Code Camp in November.</p>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

## Sugar Labs in the Classroom

### Music Blocks

<section id="intro" class="customMarPadCombo2">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row">
      <div class="col-md-12">
        <div class="testimonial-carousel">
          <div id="testimonial-slider2" class="owl-carousel text-center">
            <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image22.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Nathan</h3>
              <p>Nathan (at back) has studied with Devin for ten years. Over the summer, Nathan came in regularly to test new Music Blocks features that were being developed as part of Google Summer of Code.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image12.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Musician and programmer duo</h3>
              <p>Two instructors for a summer camp at MAP Family Learning Center worked together to create lessons for different themes, such as Egypt, Spain, and India. One instructor is primarily a programmer, the other is a Berklee-trained musician.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image14.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Lesson plan generator</h3>
              <p>One of the projects for GSoC was a LLM-enabled lesson plan generator. Nathan (at right) and I tested it as we were helping the instructors create lesson plans for five weeks of summer classes.</p>
            </div>
	    <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image38.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Music+Code</h3>
              <p>Nathan was eventually recruited to help the instructors create lesson plans. He utilized his knowledge and understanding of both music and programming to create projects for the students.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image16.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Musical debugging</h3>
              <p>Nathan created unique projects for Music Blocks, which are now uploaded to the Planet. He had to debug both the music and the logic in order to make his projects work.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image2.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Summer fun</h3>
              <p>Lesson plans created by Nathan and the two teachers were used over the summer. The students had a great time, and we received important feedback to improve Music Blocks.</p>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

### Sugar Learning Platform and Sugar Activities

I started teaching a small group of kindergarten and first graders in
the fall using the Sugar Learning Platform. We started with a few One
Laptop Per Child (OLPC) laptops that I have and later moved onto newer
hardware. The students really fell in love with their computers,
calling the chat robot their "robot friend", creating art and music,
and playing games.

I worked with them on all sorts of things, from spelling to
problem-solving, and the foundation that we built in the fall has
transitioned into programming with Turtle Blocks. This class continues
to this day. It has been a joy for the students and it's been
informative for me. Plus, my experience in the classroom has helped me
send feedback to the developers for improvement.

<section id="intro" class="customMarPadCombo2">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row">
      <div class="col-md-12">
        <div class="testimonial-carousel">
          <div id="testimonial-slider2" class="owl-carousel text-center">
            <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image44.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">First introduction</h3>
              <p>Devin ran "Sugar classes" for kindergarten and second grade in the fall.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image31.png" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Robot friend</h3>
              <p>The students in Devin's class expressed much joy as they explored the tools in Sugar.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image18.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Computer surprise</h3>
              <p>Soon after the computers were introduced to the students, one student brought in her own computer. She had drawn a computer with a monitor and keyboard, modeled after her experience using Sugar.</p>
            </div>
	    <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image24.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Students helping students</h3>
              <p>Devin's son Kai (at right) helped the students in their first weeks.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image6.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">First steps</h3>
              <p>At first, the computers took some getting used to. Now, the students understand the basics.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image46.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Joyful learning</h3>
              <p>The students had a blast learning together with the Sugar Learning Platform.</p>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

### Teaching Git to students of Everett High School

In the spring, a couple teachers at a local high school approached me
about training their students to prepare to work in collaborative
software development. I met with the students twice and followed up by
email and on our group chat to help them get started with git version
control, the command line, and their first contributions to our
repositories.

<section id="intro" class="customMarPadCombo2">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row">
      <div class="col-md-12">
        <div class="testimonial-carousel">
          <div id="testimonial-slider2" class="owl-carousel text-center">
            <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image28.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">First inception into git</h3>
              <p>The high school students were eager to contribute. Contributing to free/libre/open source projects like Sugar Labs typically requires version-control collaborative tools like git.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image42.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Students and teachers of Everett High School</h3>
              <p>Devin (at left) met with the students of Everett High School two times to get them started as contributors for Sugar Labs.</p>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

## Finances

Last year, I spent time working on our finances: where we keep our
money, what platforms can be used to donate to our organization, and
increasing the number of financial tools we have available to us. I
did this work, in large part, so that charitable donations can be made
with confidence, ultimately helping every financial contribution we
receive go further. I won’t go into all the details here, but one
thing I did in order to make our finances more transparent is update
and publish our 990s to our website. All of our tax filings are now up
to date and published on <https://www.sugarlabs.org/donate/> under
“Our 990 tax filings.”

I also helped Sugar Labs secure in-kind services that help our daily
operations at no cost to us. This year, we received Open Source
Credits from Amazon Web Services (AWS) that are helping us test and
develop new educational software; we received over one-hundred
terabytes of data storage through Google Workspace for nonprofits, and
we received other in-kind services that are helping us run our
organization more efficiently.

Lastly, I laid the groundwork for receiving financial contributions
through every.org via ACH, Stocks, and even cryptocurrency. I
successfully applied for Sugar Labs to be added to the PayPal Giving
Fund, which has opened the door to other ways of giving that use the
platform as an authority. Employers can now find us on Benevity. Both
of these are live now in 2025, the result of work done in 2024\.

Ways to give:

* https://www.every.org/sugar-labs>
* https://causes.benevity.org/causes/840-843289298>
* https://mygoodness.benevity.org/community/cause/840-843289298/donate>
* https://www.paypal.com/us/fundraiser/charity/4357440> (for businesses)
* https://www.sugarlabs.org/donate/> (up-to-date list of methods to give)

### In-kind donations

We received eleven Thinkpads (X1 Yogas) from Beacon Communities, LLC
in April. These laptops all have touchscreens, which are helpful for
the kids, and have been used to teach both Sugar Activities and Music
Blocks.

<section id="intro" class="customMarPadCombo2">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row">
      <div class="col-md-12">
        <div class="testimonial-carousel">
          <div id="testimonial-slider2" class="owl-carousel text-center">
            <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image47.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Installing Trisquel on the donated machines</h3>
              <p>Trisquel is a distribution of GNU/Linux that offers a version for download that has the Sugar Learning Platform as its default.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image19.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Super Tux</h3>
              <p>The computers were received near the end of the school year, so the obvious way to test them out was to let the kids play with them.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image1.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Teacher and intern training</h3>
              <p>The donated computers helped us train teachers and interns to use Music Blocks.</p>
            </div>
	    <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image27.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Nine upcycled computers</h3>
              <p>These nine computers are now property of Sugar Labs. They've been used since we've received them to teach Sugar and Music Blocks, as well as to test new code created by GSoC participants.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image48.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Touch screens</h3>
              <p>All of the donated laptops have touchscreens.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image36.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Multimedia</h3>
              <p>Students are able to interact with the computers via touch and with a mouse. They also ahve headphones they can use to hear sounds from the computers.</p>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

### AWS open-source credits

In 2024, we applied for and won open-source credits worth $8,000,
which will help us test the LLM and neural network services we
developed over the summer.

### New Sugar Labs merchandise for sale

We had a little bit of fun in our fundraising efforts last
year. Inspired by people reaching out to us about merchandise and
questions about \*how to buy Sugar\*, we now offer a variety of
merchandise, including clothing items such as hoodies and t-shirts in
different colors. We also have SoaS (Sugar on a Stick) USBs available
for purchase. In order to offer these products with the least amount
of overhead cost to our organization, we partnered with two vendors,
Bonfire and USB Memory Direct. You can purchase clothing merchandise
on our Bonfire page and bootable USBs on our USB Memory Direct page,
Plus, proceeds support Sugar Labs's mission to create learning
software for education through Constructionist principles.

<section id="intro" class="customMarPadCombo2">
  <div class="container">
    <div class="row">
      <div class="col-md-12">
        <div class="testimonial-carousel">
          <div id="testimonial-slider2" class="owl-carousel text-center">
            <div class="text-center">
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image15.png" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Landing page for USBs</h3>
              <p>USB Memory Direct partnered with us to sell and distribute USBs with Sugar on a Stick (SoaS) pre-installed.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image10.png" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">T-shirts and hoodies</h3>
              <p>In 2024, we started a merchandise store through Bonfire.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image50.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">SOAS delivered to your door</h3>
              <p>The test package came with smarties and a sticker. The USB was tested and proven to work as expected.</p>
            </div>
	    <div>
              <img id="imgrflt" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/2024-annual-report/image11.jpg" alt="" class="customImageStyle" style="width: 50%; display: block; margin: 0 auto; padding-bottom: 20px;">
              <h3 class="text-center">Fun fashion</h3>
              <p>Our store on Bonfire offers a range of colors and styles.</p>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</section>

To view and purchase our merchandise, please go to:
<https://www.sugarlabs.org/products/>

Read more about the launch of our products:
<https://www.sugarlabs.org/community/2025/01/21/SoaS-USB-announcement/>

## 2024 accounting details: Revenue and expenses

For 2024, we had a net loss of $62,629.28. Here's the breakdown for
revenue and expenses:

* Revenue: $7,872.86
* Expenses: $70,502.14

In more detail, here were our top 2024 Expenses:

1. Payroll expenses: $45,136.99
2. Contractor expenses: $9,978.19
3. Taxes: $6,356.05
4. Lawyer fees and accountant fees: $2,793.00
5. Travel (to and from conferences): $2,792.66
6. Conference fees: $1,345.00
7. Other (mail services, marketing, insurance, government fees, web hosting): $2,100.25

And here's our 2024 Income by category:

1. Google: $6,700.00
2. Donations\*\*: $786.05
3. Interest income (our new US Bank checking account gives us interest): $350.57
4. Sales (Bonfire clothing): $36.24

\*\*Note: We use the cash method for accounting, so donations that
were sent in 2024 but not deposited until 2025 are not here.

### In-kind donations

In the fall of 2024, I applied for Open Source Credits from Amazon Web
Services in the amount of $8,000. We successfully received those
credits, and we’re planning to use them to deploy and test the
projects that we created during GSoC 2024\.

## Membership

We made one significant update to our membership last year. In the
weeks leading up to this year’s election, we asked our community to
reapply for membership. We did this because [our
bylaws](https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Governance) require a
majority vote from members to pass certain amendments. Because of
this, we decided to make participation in the election a mandatory
requirement for maintaining membership or becoming a new member).

Otherwise, the criteria for becoming a member is the same as
before. As you can read on our membership page, “any ‘significant and
sustained’ contributor to Sugar Labs is eligible for membership.
Although it is difficult to specify a precise definition, a
contributor generally must have contributed to a non-trivial
improvement of the Sugar project or Sugar Labs activity. Contributions
may be code, documentation, translations, maintenance of project-wide
resources, running a Sugar deployment, or other non-trivial activities
which benefit Sugar Labs.”

We encourage anyone making “significant and sustained” contributions
to Sugar Labs – whether those contributions are code or not – to apply
for membership. Membership affords you voting rights.

Read more about membership, and how to apply for membership, at
<https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Members>.

## Election

In 2024, Sugar Labs ran an election for members to its Board of
Directors for the 2024-25 cycle, the results of which were announced
on December 19, 2024\. The winners of the election were Devin
Ulibarri, Sumit Srivastava, and Sebastian Silva.

You can read more about the election process and results on Sugar
Labs's website:

* <https://www.sugarlabs.org/community/2024/11/08/fall-board-elections-how-to-participate/>
* <https://www.sugarlabs.org/community/2024/11/22/elections-extension/>
* <https://www.sugarlabs.org/community/2024/12/19/election-results/>

## Management and Board

[Devin Ulibarri stepped into the role of executive
director](https://www.sugarlabs.org/press/2024/05/08/Sugar-Labs-announces-nonprofit-status-new-executive-director/)
in 2024, and, as mentioned in “Elections” above, Sugar Labs members
voted three new members to the board, filling one vacancy.
